#Weekly Log 

Monday 19th  October 2020 

This week I came up with an idea for my project. 

Friday 30th October 2020 

Determined the functionality of the project. Completed draft proposal. 

Friday 6th November 2020 

Researched suitable languages for my project. 

Friday 13th November 2020 

This week I drew out the proposed layout of the app on paper. 

Friday 20th November 2020 

This week I have decided to use android studio as we will have a module in second semester (App Development with Java) that could be helpful for my project. I have downloaded Android Studio and got a simple app up and running using an emulator. 

Friday 27th November 2020 

This week I have designed the login and signup screens of my application. 

Friday  4th December 2020 

This week I have gone back on my decision to use Android Studio and java to create my project and will now be using react Native to create an Expo app which can be deployed on both an iPhone and an android phone. My supervisor felt that because I have a module next semester that will cover all the material needed for my project that there might not be enough in my project to warrant a good grade. I agreed completely with my supervisor and have opted to use react native instead. 

Friday 11th December 2020 

This week I set up an expo app and have deployed it on my own personal phone using a QR code generated by Expo. 

Friday 18th December 2020 

This week I designed my login and signup screens. I have also added navigation between these two screens. On the login screen I created two text inputs. One labeled “Username” and the other labeled “password”. I have done the same for the signup screen. I have also added a “Touchable opacity” to the Login screen that says “Not Singed up yet? Sign in here” and if pressed it will navigate to the signup screen. I have another Touchable opacity on the signup screen that will navigate back to the login screen if you have already signed up. 

Friday 25th December 2020 

This week I added a home screen which can navigate to a gallery screen and to a geo map. I have used the google maps API as the geo map. The gallery has no function yet. 

Friday 1st January 2021 

This week I added APIs (application programming interfaces) for the gallery screen. I added an API so that you can use your camera in the app, and I also added an API so you can access old photos that have already been taken on your phone. 

Friday 8th January 2021 

This week I polished up a few bits on the user interface side of things and prepared for my presentation. 

Friday 5th February 2021 

This week I researched what data base I was going to use. 

Friday 12th February 2021 

Tried to incorporate MongoDB into my project. 

Friday 19th February 2021 

This week I tried to add a realm app API to allow my app to connect directly to a MongoDB cluster. 

Friday 26th February 2021 

This week I continued trying to incorporate the realm app into my project and connect to MongoDB. 

Friday 19th March 2021 

This week I scrapped the realm app and connected to MongoDB through a server. 

Friday 26th March 2021 

This week I got my database saving a username and password which was sent to it by Postman. I added functionality for adding and deleting users from MongoDB as well as checking if a user already exists. (So that two identical usernames cannot be used.) 

Friday 2nd April 2021 

This week I added the signup functionality that I had configured last week to my actual app. You can now signup to my app through the Expo app and your details will be sent to MongoDB. 

Friday 9th April 2021 

This week I tried to add authentication to the login part of my app. 

Friday 16th April 2021 

This week I was getting an error in my project which forced me to make a new project. This gave me the chance to separate all my screens into separate screens. Previously I had all my screens and code in my app.js. 

Friday 23rd April 2021 

This week I completed the functionality for logging into my app. 

 

Friday 30th April 2021 

This week I changed from using a react native google map Api to a react component. This allows me to view the map on a web app. 

Friday 1st May 2021 

This week I added functionality so you can add a marker to wherever you caught a fish. 

 

 

 

 